AB#989 /secrets endpoint (#57)
edgelesssys/marblerun.sh: content/docs/workflows/managing-secrets.md

---
title: "Managing Secrets"
date: 2021-06-17T13:36:38+02:00
draft: false
weight: 7
---

# Managing Secrets

In some cases a user might need access to a secret generated by Marblerun, or they might instead want to set the secret themselves.

Additionally not all secret data comes in the form of symmetric-keys and certificates. For example an application can require an access-token to establish a secure connection to some service.
While setting this information directly in the Manifest is an option, this would also expose potentially confidential information to everyone with access to the Manifest.

To circumvent this issue, Marblerun allows users with write permission for specific secrets, to uploade secret data after the Manifest has already been set.
Similarly Marblerun also allows users with read permission for specific secrets, to retrieve those secrets from the coordinator.
For this the Coordinator exposes the `/secrets` endpoint over its HTTP-REST interface.

## Reading a secret

> Marblerun returns secrets over the client API as JSON strings of their internal structure. 
> Using the CLI, this output is formatted into an easily reabale form, or directly saved to a file.
> Note that for this operation, you need to specify one of your defined `Users` certificates as a TLS client certificate, combined with the according private key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Marblerun returns secrets over the client API in JSON format. 
Using the CLI, this output is formatted into an easily readable form, or directly saved to a file.
Note that for this operation, you need to provide the `Users` credentials you defined in the manifest.
```

For example, to request a secret named `symmetric_key_shared` one would use the command:
```bash
marblerun secret get symmetric_key_shared $MARBLERUN --cert=admin-cert.pem --key=admin-key.pem --era-config=era.json
```
This then returns the secret, if the user is permitted to read the secret:
```
symmetric_key_shared:
	Type:          symmetric-key
	UserDefined:   false
	Size:          128
	Key:           uVGpoJZTRICLccJiVNt9jA==
```

## Setting a secret

> Setting a secret requires a user to upload a JSON file containing the secret, and for the secret to be marked as `UserDefined` in the manifest.
> Each entry is labeled by the name of the secret and defines either just `Key` or `Cert` and optionally `Private`.
> The values one needs to set depend on the type of secret:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A user can upload secrets via the REST-API in JSON format. The secrets need to be marked as `UserDefined` in the manifest.
Each entry in the JSON dictionary is labeled by the name of the secret and contains values depending on its type:
```

* For the type `plain`:
  * `Key`: arbitrary data in base64 encoding. This may be a key of unspecified length, a confidential config file, or any kind of data only some Marbles and/or users should have access to.

The following gives an example for a file to set the secrets `user_defined_symmetric_key`, `user_defined_cert`, and `generic_secret`:

```javascript
{
  "user_defined_symmetric_key": {
    "Key": "AAECAwQFBgcICQoLDA0ODw=="
  },
  "user_defined_cert": {
    "Cert": "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",
    "Private": "MC4CAQAwBQYDK2VwBCIEIPlmAOOhAStk8ytxzvekPr8zLaQa9+lxnHK+CizDrMds"
  },
  "generic_secret": {
    "Key": "SGVsbG8gZnJvbSB0aGUgTWFyYmxlcnVuIERvY3MhCg=="
  }
}
```

> This file can then be uploaded using the CLI, once again requiring a `Users` certificate and matching private key:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This file can then be uploaded using the CLI and the users credentials:
```

For such cases, Marblerun has a feature that allows predefined users to upload secrets that have been predefined in the Manifest.
Similarly, predefined users can retrieve particular secrets from the coordinator.
To that end, the coordinator exposes the `/secrets` endpoint over its HTTP-REST interface.

## Reading a secret

Marblerun returns secrets over the client API in JSON format. 
Using the CLI, this output is formatted into an easily readable form, or directly saved to a file.
Note that for this operation, you need to provide the `Users` credentials you defined in the manifest.

For example, to request a secret named `symmetric_key_shared` one would use the command:
```bash
marblerun secret get symmetric_key_shared $MARBLERUN --cert=admin-cert.pem --key=admin-key.pem --era-config=era.json
```
This then returns the secret, if the user is permitted to read the secret:
```
symmetric_key_shared:
	Type:          symmetric-key
	UserDefined:   false
	Size:          128
	Key:           uVGpoJZTRICLccJiVNt9jA==
```

## Setting a secret

> A user can upload secrets via the REST-API in JSON format. The secrets need to be marked as `UserDefined`.

Reviewer 2: "Users can set secrets that are marked as `UserDefined` by uploading a JSON file. In the file, secrets can be defined as follows."

Does one say "JSON dictionary"?

The following gives an example for a file to set the secrets `user_defined_symmetric_key`, `user_defined_cert`, and `generic_secret`:

```javascript
{
  "user_defined_symmetric_key": {
    "Key": "AAECAwQFBgcICQoLDA0ODw=="
  },
  "user_defined_cert": {
    "Cert": "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",
    "Private": "MC4CAQAwBQYDK2VwBCIEIPlmAOOhAStk8ytxzvekPr8zLaQa9+lxnHK+CizDrMds"
  },
  "generic_secret": {
    "Key": "SGVsbG8gZnJvbSB0aGUgTWFyYmxlcnVuIERvY3MhCg=="
  }
}
```

This file can then be uploaded using the CLI and the users credentials:
```bash
marblerun secret set secret_file.json $MARBLERUN --cert=admin-cert.pem --key=admin-key.pem --era-config=era.json
```

> The secrets will then be available to Marbles or other users over the REST-API. If the user lacks permission to set one of the secrets, or a secret the user tried to upload was malformed an error occurs instead.

Reviewer 2: "Subsequently, the secrets can be accessed by marbles and authorized users". 

I believe we don't need to reiterate that this works via the REST-API.

> Alternatively the CLI also supports directly uploading a PEM encoded certificate and key.

Reviewer 2: I believe that it would be helpful to describe this simpler approach first.
